                            More by me!

                            SCP-6575 event in progress. [FURTHER CONTEXT
                            REDACTED]

                            Special Containment Procedures:

                            Containment Notice

                            Information about SCP-6575 is known to be
                            harmful to individuals with conventionally
                            aligned rational paradigms. As such, certain
                            parts of the SCP-6575 file are only accessible
                            to members of the Department of Surrealistics.
                            Additionally, certain parts of the SCP-6575
                            file may appear illogical or redundant. This is
                            by design.

                            Direct containment of SCP-6575 is currently
                            infeasible; however, immediate response to
                            SCP-6575 events is sufficient to mitigate their
                            effects. The Department of Surrealistics has
                            been tasked with conducting research on
                            SCP-6575, coordinating SCP-6575 response
                            operations and developing predictive models of
                            SCP-6575 events. This file is maintained as a
                            joint operation between the Surrealistics
                            Department and its assigned Foundation
                            liaisons.

                            Mobile Task Force Nu-1 ("Chainsmokers") has
                            been enlisted to respond to SCP-6575 events.
                            Members of MTF Nu-1 are to possess a Cognitive
                            Resistance Value (CRV)1 of 2 at most, as well
                            as experience operating in low-gravity
                            environments. Upon confirmation of a SCP-6575
                            event, MTF Nu-1 members are to immediately
                            establish a provisional outpost at sea level in
                            the affected location before proceeding into
                            SCP-6575-1 and executing Procedure
                            6575/BACKDRAFT.

                            Members of Nu-1 are not permitted to fully
                            comprehend Procedure 6575/BACKDRAFT under any
                            circumstances. Detailed knowledge of the
                            procedure is restricted to Surrealistics
                            Department personnel, who are to periodically
                            establish contact with Nu-1 members while they
                            are within SCP-6575-1 and disseminate either
                            relevant or irrelevant details. In the absence
                            of direct guidance, Nu-1 members are advised to
                            act on instinct rather than logical reasoning
                            when possible.

                            Following the procedure’s completion and the
                            cessation of the SCP-6575 event, all direct
                            witnesses to SCP-6575 — including members of
                            MTF Nu-1 — are to be detained. They are to be
                            kept in custody until they have been confirmed
                            to lack any knowledge relevant to the
                            containment of SCP-6575. Following this,
                            civilian witnesses may be given amnestics and
                            standard operations may resume.

                            Description: [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575]

                            Addendum 6575.01: Containment History

                            The history of SCP-6575 is difficult to safely
                            comprehend or record in a legible format. It is
                            known that, due to a poor understanding of the
                            anomaly, early SCP-6575 events caused high
                            civilian casualties and severe damage to local
                            reality. Containment efforts were frequently
                            impeded by fatal semantic disassociation and
                            [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575] eversion of
                            Foundation personnel. The primary focus of
                            containment was eventually shifted to
                            informational quarantine. While successful at
                            reducing casualties, these measures proved
                            mostly ineffective in abating SCP-6575's
                            harmful influence on reality.

                            Additionally, it was determined that SCP-6575
                            events [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575]. The gradual
                            propagation of [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575]
                            throughout the Noosphere2 was projected to lead
                            to a total containment failure within one year.

                            At the peak of SCP-6575 activity, an emergency
                            summit was called between department heads to
                            discuss alternate containment procedures for
                            SCP-6575, O5-2 presiding. During this summit,
                            Surrealistics Director Marcel Sequitur proposed
                            [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575]. Due to a lack of
                            other viable options, Dir. Sequitur's proposal
                            was accepted. Field testing proved it to be
                            fully effective in negating SCP-6576 events,
                            after which it was further refined into
                            Procedure 6575/BACKDRAFT.

                            The current SCP-6575 containment procedures
                            were developed and put into operation over the
                            following two months, reducing SCP-6575
                            activity to acceptable levels.

                            Addendum 6575.02: Procedure 6575/BACKDRAFT

                            [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575]

                            The mechanism by which Procedure 6575/BACKDRAFT
                            forces the cessation of a SCP-6575 event is
                            unknown. It is theorized that conventional
                            rational thought is near-completely
                            incompatible with the structure of Procedure
                            6575/BACKDRAFT. Due to this, information
                            related to the procedure naturally
                            self-disposes from most human minds after it is
                            performed. However, Procedure 6575/BACKDRAFT
                            does not result in lasting physical or
                            psychological harm to participating personnel;
                            the only side effect observed is a reduction in
                            proprioceptive skills lasting 1-2 days.

                            Note that injuries and death can still occur
                            within SCP-6575-1 from sources unrelated to
                            Procedure 6575/BACKDRAFT.

                            Addendum 6575.03: SCP-6575 Event Log

                            In order to aid Foundation personnel in
                            comprehending SCP-6575 as fully as possible,
                            the Surrealistics Department has provided a
                            partial transcript of a MTF Nu-1 expedition
                            into SCP-6575-1 during which Procedure
                            6575/BACKDRAFT was performed. Stylistic
                            discrepancies are intentional. Hazardous
                            portions of the transcript have been excised.3

                            Attending Personnel: N1-Charlie (Captain),
                            N1-Foxtrot, Command

                            Foreword: Good old Charlie is highly
                            experienced in conducting Procedure
                            6575/BACKDRAFT. They lack memories of the
                            nitty-gritty, of course, but muscle memory and
                            a bit of good old anomalous elbow grease fills
                            in the gaps. Foxtrot, on the other hand, is
                            still wet behind the ears — pardon the partial
                            pun. Let's see how they do, shall we?

                            [BEGIN LOG]

                            (Charlie and Foxtrot stand on a shore
                            somewhere, looking out over the [CLASSIFIED
                            LEVEL ഗ/6575] that used to be the ocean.
                            Foxtrot lets out a breath through clenched
                            teeth. The inside of her respirator fogs up.)

                            N1-Charlie: Something wrong?

                            N1-Foxtrot: I don't know. What were those drugs
                            Command told us to take? N—… Nostics?

                            N1-Charlie: Gnostics. G's silent. They kicking
                            in?

                            N1-Foxtrot: I feel… (Pauses) Something between
                            my temples.

                            N1-Charlie: Are you sure?

                            N1-Foxtrot: I— Yeah, completely. Why wouldn't I
                            be?

                            N1-Charlie: They're kicking in. Let's go.

                            N1-Foxtrot: Alright, alright. What are the
                            protocols for—

                            (Command contacts Charlie and Foxtrot through
                            their handheld transceivers, just to be
                            polite.)

                            Command: G'day!

                            N1-Foxtrot: Jesus!

                            Command: Flattered, but I'm not messiah
                            material. Shall we get on with this
                            containmentation operation?

                            N1-Foxtrot: (Irritated) Some warning might have
                            been nice…

                            N1-Charlie: That's not how the Surrealistics
                            work. Alright, boss, what's our first move?

                            Command: It's simple. Both of you turn around,
                            walk away from this frankly quite scary
                            anomaly, head back home and get nice and cozy
                            in your beds.

                            N1-Foxtrot: … What?

                            Command: (Cheerfully) All according to
                            BACKDRAFT!

                            (Foxtrot stares down at her transceiver. She
                            looks up to see Charlie already walking towards
                            the not-ocean, and blanches in shock.)

                            N1-Foxtrot: Hold on, but Command said—

                            N1-Charlie: (Without looking back) Didn't you
                            read the conprocs?

                            N1-Foxtrot: What?

                            N1-Charlie: The conprocs. Instinct over
                            reasoning. Trust your gut. If what Command is
                            saying doesn't make sense, we're allowed to
                            ignore it. This is a test; don't let yourself
                            fail.

                            (Charlie is now waist-deep in the [CLASSIFIED
                            LEVEL ഗ/6575]. They continue to walk deeper.
                            Foxtrot stands and stares after them; before
                            long, she runs to catch up. Command watches
                            with satisfaction.)

                            [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575]

                            Command: — want to move in a rough spiral
                            shape. Not smooth, smooth is no good. You'll
                            want it rough as sandpaper, maybe sticky as
                            flypaper too.

                            N1-Foxtrot: (Incredulously) This is the
                            procedure?

                            N1-Charlie: Yeah. You’re starting to doubt it,
                            right? Get rid of that doubt, just listen.

                            Command: Think of those neat S-thingies you
                            used to draw in middle school. Imagine you're
                            walking along one of those, or swimming in it
                            like a great zigzaggy wave pool, if that's more
                            your style. Imagine the pool's getting deeper —
                            not just deeper downwards, but sideways too.
                            Like a spiral with four points, digging into
                            your pineal—

                            (Command continues to speak ad nauseam. Foxtrot
                            grips her head with both hands.)

                            N1-Foxtrot: This— I don't understand this! What
                            are they asking us to do? We're in the middle
                            of a, a sea of [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575], and
                            Command is babbling about wave pools!

                            N1-Charlie: Foxtrot, you knew what you were
                            getting into when you signed up for this.

                            N1-Foxtrot: I wasn't… Not this! This is
                            insanity!

                            (Charlie grabs Foxtrot by the shoulders and
                            shakes her. They look her in the eyes with a
                            steely glare.)

                            N1-Charlie: That's the point. Now shut up and
                            stop thinking so hard about it. Like I said —
                            get rid of your doubt. Be certain. Take the
                            parts that make most sense and just let them
                            in. It’s easier that way.

                            N1-Foxtrot: I… (Breathing deeply) Okay.

                            (Charlie releases their partner, patting her on
                            the shoulder once. Visibility worsens. The
                            speed of their descent begins to increase. A
                            crackling sound is faintly audible, but neither
                            comment on it.)

                            N1-Charlie: Good. Keep it together.

                            (The crackling sound grows in volume. The
                            four-pointed spiral digs deeper.)

                            [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575]

                            N1-Foxtrot: It's like… swimming through
                            molasses. Or cotton balls.

                            N1-Charlie: Yeah. Don't look behind you. I
                            think there's usually something around here…

                            N1-Foxtrot: Shouldn't we be… I mean, by now,
                            sea level—

                            Command: Oh, is it already that time?

                            (Command checks their antique pocketwatch from
                            the safety of their comfortable armchair. They
                            laugh in pleasant surprise.)

                            Command: So it is! Next dose of Gnostics, chop
                            chop! You'll need them to get deeper than this.

                            N1-Foxtrot: Ugh, these make my head feel so

                            [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575]

                            N1-Charlie: Sorry— Underneath the darkest
                            pillar of the four, or around it?

                            Command: That's for you to figure out, my young
                            proteges.

                            N1-Charlie: Got it.

                            (Charlie turns to Foxtrot. The latter blinks
                            uncomprehendingly.)

                            N1-Charlie: Foxtrot. They said proteges,
                            plural. I want your input.

                            N1-Foxtrot: My— Ah…

                            (Foxtrot surveys the area, moving hesitantly.
                            She waves her hand through the darkest pillar.
                            As expected, it has no physical substance.)

                            N1-Foxtrot: I think… Through. (More certain)
                            Yeah. We go through.

                            N1-Charlie: (Nods.) Come on.

                            [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575]

                            Command: Depth check!

                            N1-Charlie: (Automatically) 3000 fathoms.

                            N1-Foxtrot: I'd ask how that's possible when
                            the [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575] only 2045
                            fathoms, but when we're dealing with anomalies…

                            N1-Charlie: Yeah.

                            Command: Don't you worry your heads off about
                            it, I didn't mean literal depth.

                            N1-Charlie: (Pauses) I—

                            Command: And I already knew the answer. Not
                            deep enough.

                            [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575]

                            N1-Charlie: Darker—

                            N1-Foxtrot: Samirah, spare a light—

                            Command: Don't let it get in through your ears,
                            now!

                            [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575]

                            N1-Foxtrot: [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575]

                            N1-Charlie: [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575]

                            (Someone does something. Command checks their
                            watch.)

                            Command: We're right on schedule, and you're
                            almost to the bottom. Oh, watch out for falling
                            ideas. If you get hit, that'll fuck the whole
                            Procedure up and we'll have to start over.

                            N1-Charlie: [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575]

                            Command: Language!

                            [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575]

                            N1-Charlie: S-s-sometimes it's hard to tell
                            where a star is, but you'll always know where
                            it isn't—

                            N1-Foxtrot: Stay with me! STAY WITH ME!

                            [CLASSIFIED LEVEL ഗ/6575]

                            (The surrounding area has become extremely
                            dense, limiting visibility. N1-Foxtrot stares
                            at a point in front of her. N1-Charlie is
                            suspended at this point, unmoving. Their head
                            is tilted back and their respirator floats off
                            to the side, revealing that their mouth is open
                            unusually wide. Thick, dark smoke is issuing
                            slowly from within their throat. Their eyes
                            appear to lack pupils or irises.)

                            N1-Foxtrot: Charlie… Charlie, wake up.

                            (Silence.)

                            Command: Ooh, that's not pretty.

                            N1-Foxtrot: Command?! What— Where have you— We
                            need immediate extraction, medical attention,
                            something— (Gestures frantically) Look at
                            Charlie!

                            Command: Sorry to say, Foxtrot, the Procedure's
                            just about done. You've done great work, really
                            stellar! We're all quite proud of you back
                            here. There's only one thing left to do. You
                            need to swim back up.

                            N1-Foxtrot: (Pauses) And leave Charlie?

                            Command: Just so you know, the archons are
                            famished. Probably a good idea to clear out
                            sooner rather than later — I think you have
                            better places to be than inside one of their
                            stomachs. Unpleasant decor, I'll have you know—

                            N1-Foxtrot: You want me to leave them to die?

                            Command: Oh, no, Charlie's not dying.
                            Conceptual eversion is a tad bit worse,
                            actually.

                            (Silence.)

                            Command: But you do need to leave them.

                            (Silence.)

                            Command: Fox—

                            N1-Foxtrot: No.

                            Command: Pardon?

                            N1-Foxtrot: (Shouting) I said no! I'm not
                            leaving them! You can sit up there and prattle
                            on about that Procedure all you want. To hell
                            with that. I know what's right.

                            (Visibility slightly improves. The smoke
                            surrounding N1-Foxtrot ripples.)

                            N1-Foxtrot: You wanted me to be certain. Trust
                            my gut. My gut's saying to save them.

                            Command: (Incredulous silence.)

                            N1-Foxtrot: (Breathing heavily) Command, I—

                            Command: You're crazy, Foxtrot.

                            (Silence.)

                            Command: (Laughing.) And of course, from us,
                            that's a compliment! By all means, give it your
                            best shot. We'll be waiting!

                            (Command cuts contact, just to be polite.)

                            (Foxtrot wipes her forehead, then reaches out
                            to Charlie's face and closes their mouth gently
                            with her hand. The stream of smoke begins to
                            thin. She hooks her arms underneath Charlie's
                            shoulders and heaves. She moves to swim upwards
                            with her partner in tow, looking up at the
                            surface as she ascends. The dark, serpentine
                            shapes of the archons circle — but far, far
                            above, there is sunlight, filtering down.)

                            [END LOG]

                            In spite of N1-Foxtrot's apparent deviation
                            from Procedure 6575/BACKDRAFT, the procedure
                            worked as expected in this instance, forcing
                            the cessation of the SCP-6575 event. Following
                            their emergence from SCP-6575-1, N1-Charlie and
                            N1-Foxtrot were taken into custody by the
                            Surrealistics Department for one week, during
                            which N1-Charlie was treated for [CLASSIFIED
                            LEVEL ഗ/6575] and made a full recovery. Both
                            agents lost all memory of the specifics of
                            Procedure 6575/BACKDRAFT as normal.

                            Director Marcel Sequitur was contacted for any
                            possible insight on the events of the above
                            log. His response consisted of a single
                            sentence, which has been appended below.

                            What can I say? Sometimes the right decision
                            isn't always the one that makes sense.

                            « SCP-6574 | SCP-6575 | SCP-6576 »

                            Cite this page as:

                            "SCP-6575" by swordlover87, from the SCP Wiki.
                            Source: https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-6575.
                            Licensed under CC-BY-SA.

                            For more information, see Licensing Guide.
                            Licensing Disclosures

                            Filename: smokeonthewater.png Author: pxhere
                            License: CC0 Source Link: pxhere

                            For more information about on-wiki content,
                            visit the Licensing Master List.

